Inspecting Page Content
Although URL inspection
can provide some clues
about the target web application,
most context clues can be found
in the source of the web page.
The Firefox Debugger tool,
found in the Web Developer,
displays the page’s resources and content,
which varies by application.
The Debugger tool may display JavaScript frameworks,
hidden input fields, comments,
client-side controls within HTML,
JavaScript, and much more.
To demonstrate this,
we can inspect the Debugger
while browsing
www.megacorp.one:
We can see that the application
uses jQuery version 1.11.0,
a common JavaScript library.
In this case, the developer
minified the code,
making it more compact
and conserving resources
but making it somewhat difficult to read.
Fortunately, we can “prettify” code
within Firefox by clicking on
the Pretty print source button
with the double curly braces:
After clicking the icon,
Firefox displays the code in a format
that is easier to read and follow.
We can also use the Inspector tool to
drill down into specific page content.
Let’s use Inspector to examine the email
input element from the “Contact” page
by right-clicking the
email address field on the page,
and selecting Inspect Element.
This opens the Inspector tool
and highlights the HTML
for the element we selected.
This tool is especially useful
for quickly finding hidden
form fields in the HTML source.